Adds Dev Tools Console documentation (#1576)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _dashboards/run-queries.md

---
layout: default
title: Running queries in Console
nav_order: 110
---

> # Running queries in Console

Reviewer: "the Console"

> You can use the OpenSearch DevTools Console to send queries to OpenSearch. 

Reviewer 2: I think @natebower should have some input on this. This should be "Dev Tools" (with a space), but more broadly, what should we refer to this as? Elasticsearch docs say "Interact with the REST APIs of Elasticsearch and Kibana with Console", but this sounds awkward. 

In my docs I've always said "...in the OpenSearch developer console", but maybe that's not right either. 

Nate, do you have any input?

Reviewer 2: @kolchfa-aws informed me that you guys have already discussed this. LGTM.

> ## Navigating to Console

Reviewer: "the Console"

> To open Console, select **Dev Tools** on the main OpenSearch Dashboards page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To open Console, select **Dev Tools** in the OpenSearch Dashboards:
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dev-tools/dev-tools-main.png" alt="Dev Tools Console from main page">{: .img-fluid }

> You can open Console from any other page by navigating to the main menu and selecting **Management** > **Dev Tools**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can open Console from any other pane by navigating to the main menu and selecting **Management** > **Dev Tools**.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dev-tools/dev-tools-left.png" width=200 alt="Dev Tools Console from all pages">

## Writing queries 

Write your queries in the editor pane on the left side of the console:

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dev-tools/dev-tools-request.png" alt="Request pane">{: .img-fluid }

You can collapse and expand parts of your query by selecting the small triangles next to the line numbers.
{: .tip}

> To learn more about writing queries in OpenSearch domain-specific language, see [Query DSL]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/query-dsl).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To learn more about writing queries in OpenSearch domain-specific language (DSL), see [Query DSL]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/query-dsl).
```

### Comments

> Use `#` in the beginning of a line to write one-line comments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `#` in the beginning of a line to write single line comments.
```

> Use `#` in the beginning of a line to write single line comments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use `#` at the beginning of a line to write single-line comments.
```

### Autocomplete

> OpenSearch provides autocomplete suggestions for fields, indices and their aliases, and templates. To configure autocomplete preferences, update them in [Console Settings](#updating-console-settings).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenSearch provides autocomplete suggestions for fields, indexes and their aliases, and templates. To configure autocomplete preferences, update them in [Console Settings](#updating-console-settings).
```

## Sending the request 

> To send a query to OpenSearch, select the query by placing the cursor anywhere in the query text. Then choose the triangle on the top right of the request or press `Ctrl/Cmd+Enter`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send the request to OpenSearch, select the query by placing the cursor anywhere within the editor. Select the triangle, or press `Ctrl/Cmd+Enter`:
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dev-tools/dev-tools-send.png" alt="Send request">

OpenSearch displays the response in the response pane on the right side of the console:

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dev-tools/dev-tools-response.png" alt="Response pane">{: .img-fluid }

> ## Working in cURL and console formats

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Working in the cURL and console formats
```

> Console uses an easier syntax to format REST requests than the `curl` command. 

Reviewer: The Console

For example, the following `curl` command runs a search query:

```bash
curl -XGET http://localhost:9200/shakespeare/_search?pretty -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "text_entry": "To be, or not to be"
    }
  }
}'
```

The same query has a simpler syntax in Console format:

```json
GET shakespeare/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "text_entry": "To be, or not to be"
    }
  }
}
```

> If you paste a `curl` command directly into the Console, the command is automatically converted into Console format. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you paste a `curl` command directly into the Console, the command is automatically converted into JSON format. 
```

To import a query in cURL format, select the query, then select the wrench icon and choose **Copy as cURL**:

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dev-tools/dev-tools-tools.png" alt="Console tools">

## Viewing documentation

> To view OpenSearch documentation, select the wrench icon, and choose **Open documentation**.

Reviewer 3: "the OpenSearch documentation"?

## Auto indenting

To use auto indent, select the queries that you want to format, select the wrench icon, and choose **Auto indent**.

Auto indenting a collapsed query expands it.

Auto indenting a well-formatted query puts the request body on a single line. This is useful for working with [bulk APIs]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/rest-api/document-apis/bulk/).
{: .tip}

## Viewing your request history

> You can view up to 500 most recent requests that OpenSearch executed successfully. To view request history, select **History** from the top menu. If you select the request you want to view from the left pane, the query is shown in the right pane. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can view up to 500 most recent requests that OpenSearch ran successfully. To view request history, select **History** from the top menu. If you select the request you want to view from the left pane, the query is shown in the right pane. 
```

Reviewer 3: Would "You can view the 500 most recent requests..." work? Otherwise, it would need to be "You can view up to the 500 most recent requests..."
